# Challenge \#4 - Logos, Colors, and Languages

[< Previous Challenge](./03-external-idp.md) - **[Home](../readme.md)** - [Next Challenge>](./05-claims-enrichment.md)

## Pre-requisites

**- To complete this challenge, you should have completed the following:**

- Provisioned a B2C tenant
- Created a SignUp / SignIn (SUSI) User Flow
- Tested the User Flow via the Azure AD B2C Portal
- Incorporated a 3rd party IdP (e.g. GitHub, Facebook, etc.)

## Description

CMC IT Leadership is _extremely_ impressed with your SignUp / SignIn flow and how easily you've incorporated a 3rd party IdP......BUT, they have some additional requirements. (You're starting to detect a pattern here.)

First off, one of your developers has developed a [harness application](../Resources/HarnessApp/README.md) where you can incorporate your SignUp / SignIn User Flow. This web application is located in your "resources" folder, and your developer has parameterized it so that you should only have to modify your application's settings in order to incorporate the User Flow.

CMC IT Leadership has decided that, while Slate Gray is a nice theme and all, it's pretty plain. They have asked you to add some custom branding, such as corporate logo and background images, and also to use a different layout for the SignUp / SignIn flow.

CMC IT Leadership would like you to use the provided [HTML layout template](../Resources/PageTemplates/selfAsserted.html). You will not need to [modify the template](../Resources/PageTemplates/selfAsserted.html), but you will have to find a place to host these resources.

In addition to this, they would also like to customize some of the text on the pages, specifically they would like:

- Given Name should be "First Name"
- Surname should be "Last Name"
- Your CMC Consultant ID should be "Consultant ID"

CMC IT Leadership would also like the ability for the consultant to modify their profile, so they have asked you to create a new User Flow for Profile Editing, using the new HTML template and images, and allow the user to change attributes like:

- First name
- Last name
- Display name

**NOTE:** CMC Consultant ID should not be modifiable!!

Lastly, they would also like to have localization support for the SignUp / SignIn and Profile Edit flows, specifically supporting a language of your choice (e.g. Spanish, French, etc.) and modifying a few string values. You can use the default localized values for your User Attributes, but CMC IT Leadership is fine if you want to provide translated localized values.

## Success Criteria

CMC IT Leadership will consider this step successfully completed if you have:

- Created a new Profile Edit User Flow;
- Incorporated the custom corporate [HTML template](../Resources/PageTemplates/selfAsserted.html) in your SignUp / SignIn User Flow and Profile Edit User Flow;
- Modified the display values of the several attributes they have requested;
- Enable localization by supporting at least one additional language of your choice and modified a few string values for a language;
- Optionally, you have deployed the [web harness application](../Resources/HarnessApp/) that your developer provided to Azure;
- Tested the new look and feel of your SignUp / SignIn User Flow (and specific localizations) via the web harness that your developer provided.

## Learning Resources

[Customizing Azure AD B2C UX](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory-b2c/customize-ui-overview#custom-html-and-css)

[Language Customization](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory-b2c/user-flow-language-customization)

[Deploy Web App to Azure App Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/host-and-deploy/azure-apps/?view=aspnetcore-5.0&tabs=visual-studio)

[Deploy Web App to Azure App Service using Visual Studio](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-US/visualstudio/deployment/quickstart-deploy-to-azure?view=vs-2019)

[Create a User Flow in Azure AD B2C](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory-b2c/create-user-flow)

## Tips

_You don't have to deploy the web harness app to Azure; you can run it locally. However, it would be impressive to CMC IT Leadership if they see the application running in Azure._

## Advanced Challenges (Optional)

_Too comfortable? Eager to do more? Try these additional challenges!_

**- Azure AD B2C allows you to use [custom JavaScript](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory-b2c/user-flow-javascript-overview) in your custom templates. For your SignIn portion of your User Flow, enable a "[Show Password](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory-b2c/javascript-samples#show-or-hide-a-password)" checkbox to toggle viewing the entered password.**
